[OLD MAN 22A] The art of war
is an ever-evolving craft,
c0000001
but you've taken a large step
toward unraveling its secrets.
c0000002
The master's lessons have now
become the student's tricks.
c0000003
That is what you
keep on telling me.
c0000004
-Oh, hey, it's Fern.
-[groaning]
c0000005
[STARK] She's about to erupt!
c0000006
But why?
c0000007
I'm scared.
c0000008
[FERN] Mistress Frieren
and I had an argument.
c0000009
I can't say I'm surprised.
c0000010
That's been happening
a lot lately.
c0000011
Neither of you are in a place
to be wasting energy right now.
c0000012
The third test
is the final one, right?
c0000013
[FERN] This time,
she really crossed a line.
c0000014
At the very end
of the last exam,
c0000015
my staff broke during a battle.
c0000016
Obviously,
I told Mistress Frieren
c0000017
that I wanted
to get it repaired.
c0000018
She said I would be better off
buying a new one.
c0000019
That it's destroyed,
and I should throw it away.
c0000020
I'm no staff expert.
c0000021
But it sounds like she's saying
c0000022
when they're in pieces,
they're hard to save.
c0000023
♪
c0000024
[FERN]
I don't care if it's hard.
c0000025
Master Heiter
gave me that staff.
c0000026
It's been with me
ever since I was little.
c0000027
We're talking Frieren,
she didn't mean you any harm.
c0000028
[FERN] I know tact
isn't her strong suit,
c0000029
but I never would have
even thought to throw it away.
c0000030
[KANNE] Three years until
the next first-class mage exam.
c0000031
That's a long time,
if you ask me.
c0000032
[LAWINE] Go ahead
and make fun of me like usual.
c0000033
Is that what you want me to do?
c0000034
-[LAWINE] No.
-Hm.
c0000035
Princess Lawine,
dost thou crave head pats?
c0000036
[birds chirping]
c0000037
[gasps] Wanna fight?
c0000038
Make it quick.
c0000039
[KANNE]
You're worse than I thought.
c0000040
Oh, look, it's Frieren.
c0000041
[chuckles]
c0000042
Hm.
c0000043
What's with the bag?
c0000044
[RICHTER] Hey.
c0000045
I don't need your company.
c0000046
I failed the test, remember?
c0000047
We no longer
have common ground.
c0000048
And you're interfering
with my business.
c0000049
And here I thought businesses
liked having customers.
c0000050
If you are shopping,
choose something.
c0000051
[sighs]
c0000052
[scribbling]
c0000053
-Want some?
-Not at all.
c0000054
[DENKEN]
You were unlucky this time.
c0000055
[scribbling]
c0000056
[DENKEN] You got the short end
of the stick.
c0000057
It could've happened
to any one of us
c0000058
and is no reflection
of your skill.
c0000059
A loss is still a loss.
c0000060
I simply wasn't strong enough
to beat it.
c0000061
[RICHTER] Don't bring
my failure up again.
c0000062
In case you couldn't tell,
I am in a horrendous mood.
c0000063
[DENKEN] And yet you still
opened your shop today.
c0000064
[sighs] Now, Denken.
c0000065
I know this may come
as a shock to you,
c0000066
but a man has to make a living.
c0000067
The race of life does not
slow down for our feelings.
c0000068
[DENKEN] Does it not?
c0000069
[RICHTER] Well...
c0000070
Perhaps it's for the best
that I'm the one who failed.
c0000071
It'll be three more years
until another exam.
c0000072
And truly...for an old man
such as you,
c0000073
three more years
are hardly assured.
c0000074
[DENKEN]
You're right about that.
c0000075
No fight left?
c0000076
♪
c0000077
[DENKEN] Richter.
c0000078
You are undeniably
an impudent brat.
c0000079
You mock those above you
and have no qualms
c0000080
about mistreating
those below you
c0000081
if it helps you succeed.
c0000082
It's a challenge to find
anything admirable about you.
c0000083
Yet for some reason,
I feel no resentment
c0000084
toward you in the slightest.
c0000085
Probably because
at one point in my life,
c0000086
I was a brat even
more impudent than you.
c0000087
But look at me now,
I'm an imperial mage
c0000088
and an accomplished member
of society.
c0000089
What are you trying to say?
c0000090
[DENKEN] I'm telling you
not to be so discouraged.
c0000091
In three years' time,
you'll be far stronger
c0000092
than you are today.
c0000093
Come along, Laufen.
c0000094
♪
c0000095
Excuse him.
c0000096
Grandpa can't read a room.
c0000097
[RICHTER] This relationship
is getting strange.
c0000098
[sighs]
Damn it, old man.
c0000099
After all that,
he didn't buy anything.
c0000100
[inhales deeply]
c0000101
[exhales]
c0000102
[gasps]
c0000103
♪
c0000104
What did I do to deserve
such lovely patrons?
c0000105
I asked around town
for some help
c0000106
and was directed here.
c0000107
Rumor has it
you can fix any staff,
c0000108
no matter how broken it may be.
c0000109
Just show me.
c0000110
You've brought me
a big pile of scrap wood.
c0000111
Don't say this is the staff.
c0000112
I fix things,
not dispose of trash.
c0000113
It is not trash.
c0000114
Not for sure.
c0000115
Hm.
c0000116
[sighs]
c0000117
My mood was finally
starting to improve,
c0000118
but I fear you've launched me
even deeper into my spiral.
c0000119
I have the right to choose
which jobs I accept.
c0000120
Give up on this staff.
c0000121
[FRIEREN] Fine.
c0000122
If you can't do it,
then never mind.
c0000123
[RICHTER] Frieren...
c0000124
You test my patience
at every turn.
c0000125
I never said I couldn't do it,
now did I?
c0000126
♪
c0000127
Can you finish today?
c0000128
I want it to be repaired
in time for the third test.
c0000129
You're truly ridiculous.
c0000130
♪
c0000131
-[RICHTER] Frieren.
-Uh-huh?
c0000132
[RICHTER] I'm sorry
for calling it trash.
c0000133
It's a good staff
and well-maintained.
c0000134
Someone has clearly
taken great care of it.
c0000135
♪
c0000136
[chomps]
c0000137
[munching]
c0000138
C'mon, Fern,
we should head on back.
c0000139
All this time,
and Mistress Frieren
c0000140
doesn't understand me a bit.
c0000141
In her defense, I don't really
understand you, either.
c0000142
-[groaning]
-Hey, I'm innocent!
c0000143
Don't take your rage out on me!
c0000144
What matters...
c0000145
is that she's always
trying to understand you.
c0000146
I think she's
truly doing her best.
c0000147
♪
c0000148
Hm.
c0000149
[RICHTER] Look who it is,
Frieren's kid.
c0000150
You're her student, right?
c0000151
[gasps]
c0000152
Are you not?
c0000153
[STARK] No, she is. Sorry.
c0000154
Well, thanks to your master,
c0000155
I got to have yet another
horrible day.
c0000156
It's hardly been 24 hours
since I failed the second test.
c0000157
Hm?
c0000158
You could've saved my spirits
if you bought a new one.
c0000159
Put some more coin
in my pocket.
c0000160
Take good care of it.
c0000161
[door creaking]
c0000162
♪
c0000163
[door closes]
c0000164
♪
c0000165
She saved my staff. [gasps]
c0000166
♪
c0000167
Frieren's sharp, but she can
struggle to read emotions.
c0000168
I imagine that this will
cause many difficulties
c0000169
and disagreements
on your journey.
c0000170
It will prove tricky,
but there is an upside.
c0000171
She knows her weakness
and will worry about
c0000172
and care for you doubly so
to make up for it.
c0000173
Travel far and wide,
c0000174
but nowhere will you find
a better master.
c0000175
[sighs]
c0000176
[groaning]
c0000177
[FRIEREN] Let's see.
c0000178
♪
c0000179
[groaning]
c0000180
Grimoire.
c0000181
[wind whooshing]
c0000182
♪
c0000183
Mistress? Real quick.
c0000184
I'm sorry.
c0000185
About what?
c0000186
[chuckles]
c0000187
Nothing,
you already understand.
c0000188
Right.
c0000189
[FALSCH]
Ready yourselves, mages.
c0000190
The third test will now begin.
c0000191
[SERIE] I wouldn't typically
make the journey here.
c0000192
Know why I did, Sense?
c0000193
[SENSE] Huh?
c0000194
Opting for silence?
c0000195
Words always fail you
when trouble stirs.
c0000196
Twelve examinees
have passed the second trial.
c0000197
That's completely unheard of.
c0000198
It's not right.
c0000199
I'm always one to encourage
a test that requires teamwork,
c0000200
as the current
first-class mages
c0000201
can't cooperate
to save their lives.
c0000202
We are all ashamed.
c0000203
[SERIE]
But among the test-takers
c0000204
is a mage
far too powerful for our exam.
c0000205
You must mean Miss Frieren.
c0000206
Because of her help,
many have passed
c0000207
despite lacking
the requisite strength.
c0000208
We could go through
with a typical third test,
c0000209
but then all the unfit
would lose their lives.
c0000210
Sense.
c0000211
You created a trial
that would minimize bloodshed.
c0000212
You don't want that.
c0000213
Even I have no desire
to watch pointless slaughter.
c0000214
Please forgive me.
c0000215
You don't need to apologize.
c0000216
The fault here
is all Frieren's.
c0000217
An anomaly warrants an anomaly.
c0000218
Therefore, I will proctor
the third test.
c0000219
It is to be
a peaceful selection.
c0000220
This has been your task
in past years, Lernen.
c0000221
But you don't object, do you?
c0000222
Your willfulness
is not new to me.
c0000223
If you want the test,
you will have it,
c0000224
Mistress Serie.
c0000225
It is for the best.
c0000226
I am neither worthy
nor qualified
c0000227
to test Miss Frieren.
c0000228
I noticed it at first glance.
c0000229
She seems to be constantly
suppressing her mana.
c0000230
Her well of it is tremendous.
c0000231
It is equal
even to yours, Mistress.
c0000232
[chuckles]
c0000233
Tell me, Falsch,
did you see it?
c0000234
No, ma'am,
I saw nothing of the sort.
c0000235
Her mana is great.
c0000236
I could tell that
in the testing area.
c0000237
But to me, it didn't look
like she was suppressing it.
c0000238
There was no fluctuation.
c0000239
It was effortless and steady.
c0000240
Every living creature
that has mana
c0000241
experiences some level
of fluctuation.
c0000242
It's inescapable.
c0000243
Even if it were
possible to hide,
c0000244
it would take an extraordinary
amount of time to master.
c0000245
Expertise in such a thing
is hardly practical.
c0000246
[SERIE]
Frieren has devoted her life
c0000247
to developing
that impractical expertise
c0000248
in order to deceive demons.
c0000249
[sipping]
c0000250
Demons are acutely
aware of mana,
c0000251
far more so than
humans or elves.
c0000252
Unless you are born
with some innate talent,
c0000253
fooling them requires
centuries of practice.
c0000254
A great skill to have, sure.
c0000255
But an undoubted waste of time.
c0000256
You would become
far more powerful
c0000257
devoting your efforts
to training something else.
c0000258
It's incredibly inefficient.
c0000259
That said, inefficiency
can trick the enemy
c0000260
into dropping their guard.
c0000261
In a battle between
experienced mages,
c0000262
a slight miscalculation
of your opponent's mana
c0000263
could be a death sentence.
c0000264
Frieren's techniques
are relatively unpolished
c0000265
given her great age,
c0000266
yet she has defeated
countless demons.
c0000267
This is her genius.
c0000268
Frieren is truly a master
of controlling mana.
c0000269
If the legends are true,
only the Demon King
c0000270
could see through her act
at first glance.
c0000271
That is, until you first
beheld her, Lernen.
c0000272
Simply a coincidence.
c0000273
I happened to be there
for a minor fluctuation.
c0000274
Nothing more than that.
c0000275
Just as modest
as you are dependable.
c0000276
It's been over half a century
since you gained your title,
c0000277
the first first-class mage.
c0000278
Decades later, and you're still
the same timid boy.
c0000279
That makes it all
the more regrettable.
c0000280
[door creaking]
c0000281
You have reached a level
few can ever hope to attain,
c0000282
only toward the end
of your days.
c0000283
I would like to see you
fight Frieren,
c0000284
but I doubt
you'll ever get the chance.
c0000285
Even if it is a battle
you could win.
c0000286
I must learn
not to take on human students.
c0000287
[door creaking]
c0000288
[SERIE]
It's always disappointing.
c0000289
[door closes]
c0000290
He may have caught Frieren.
c0000291
But after a lifetime beside me,
c0000292
he still can't see
my fluctuations.
c0000293
[FALSCH]
For the third and final test,
c0000294
you are all to be interviewed
by Serie the Great Mage.
c0000295
So, it's come to this?
c0000296
I have no doubt
Serie is intending
c0000297
to fail the both of us.
c0000298
You say that like you know her.
c0000299
I used to.
c0000300
She will let
her intuition guide
c0000301
who passes and who fails.
c0000302
Serie's instincts about
these things are always right.
c0000303
The fact of the matter
c0000304
is that I still have
not grown into the mage
c0000305
she wished for me to become.
c0000306
[door opens]
c0000307
[door creaking]
c0000308
♪
c0000309
Hm.
c0000310
♪
c0000311
-Excuse me.
-You have failed the test.
c0000312
Begone.
c0000313
May I at least ask you why?
c0000314
It's clear the presence
of my mana
c0000315
has all but petrified you.
c0000316
You know the limits
of your own abilities well.
c0000317
You can't even imagine yourself
as a first-class mage, can you?
c0000318
In the world of magic,
c0000319
that which can't be visualized
cannot be.
c0000320
It's fundamental, now go.
c0000321
You fail.
c0000322
c0000323
You fail.
c0000324
c0000325
Frieren.
c0000326
Just like your peers,
you can't imagine yourself
c0000327
as a first-class mage either.
c0000328
But your reasoning
is different than theirs.
c0000329
You're convinced
there's no instance
c0000330
in which I allow you to pass.
c0000331
Well, am I wrong?
c0000332
I'll give you a single chance.
c0000333
Tell me your favorite spell.
c0000334
It creates a field of flowers.
c0000335
That's the spell
that Flamme taught you.
c0000336
And it's utterly foolish.
c0000337
You fail.
c0000338
Of course.
c0000339
You would let me mock you?
c0000340
Haven't you learned
to stand your ground?
c0000341
I find it incredibly hard
to believe
c0000342
that a mage like you
defeated the Demon King.
c0000343
[FRIEREN]
I didn't defeat anything alone.
c0000344
Himmel, Eisen, Heiter, and me.
c0000345
If any one of us
hadn't been there,
c0000346
we couldn't have won.
c0000347
So, you had strong allies.
c0000348
How lucky.
c0000349
That I was.
c0000350
Incredibly so.
c0000351
[FRIEREN] Say, Himmel?
c0000352
Of all people,
why did you recruit me?
c0000353
Because this party
needed a powerful mage.
c0000354
The capital is full
of powerful mages.
c0000355
You didn't have to choose me.
c0000356
You were the only one
that I wanted.
c0000357
Why's that?
c0000358
[HIMMEL] Frieren.
c0000359
Though I'm sure it made
no lasting impression on you,
c0000360
the two of us met long ago,
for a brief moment.
c0000361
[FRIEREN] Hm.
I have no recollection of that.
c0000362
[Himmel chuckles]
I know you don't.
c0000363
As a kid, I would forage
for herbs in the woods.
c0000364
One night, I got lost.
c0000365
I wandered the pitch-black
forest for hours, all alone.
c0000366
That was my first encounter
with loneliness.
c0000367
I began to fear I would never
see my village again.
c0000368
♪
c0000369
[HIMMEL] Just when
I was about to give up,
c0000370
a mysterious elf pointed me
in the direction of home.
c0000371
She acted more
as a trailhead than a friend.
c0000372
Not a word of comfort
or encouragement left her lips.
c0000373
In the eyes of a child,
she seemed so cold-hearted.
c0000374
Perhaps she sensed my unease,
c0000375
or perhaps she simply did it
on a whim.
c0000376
♪
c0000377
[HIMMEL] You cast a spell.
c0000378
One that created a field
of flowers all around us.
c0000379
♪
c0000380
[HIMMEL]
I thought it was beautiful.
c0000381
That was when I learned
c0000382
just how beautiful
magic can be.
c0000383
♪
c0000384
It's probably
a simple coincidence
c0000385
and as foolish as you say.
c0000386
But in a way,
that spell changed my life.
c0000387
After all, it's what brought
my companions and me together.
c0000388
Also, Serie?
c0000389
I have no doubt that you
came into this planning
c0000390
to fail Fern as well.
c0000391
But I don't think you will.
c0000392
That girl will surely
exceed your expectations.
c0000393
The era of humans has arrived.
c0000394
[SERIE]
Exceed my expectations?
c0000395
The sight of my mana
has her frozen in place.
c0000396
She's no different
from the rest of them.
c0000397
Hm.
c0000398
Hold on.
c0000399
Tell me, what is it you see?
c0000400
♪
c0000401
[FERN] It's fluctuating.
c0000402
[SERIE] Fern, was it?
c0000403
Join me, become my apprentice.
c0000404
Oh, no, thanks.
c0000405
[SERIE] Not only
would I treat you well,
c0000406
I'd take you far.
c0000407
To heights
you never thought possible.
c0000408
Accept my offer,
and you will ascend to a level
c0000409
no mage ever has before.
c0000410
Does my answer affect
whether or not I pass?
c0000411
It very well might.
c0000412
I understand.
c0000413
Mistress Serie?
c0000414
♪
c0000415
[FRIEREN] Fern.
c0000416
I have a feeling
Serie will make you a proposal.
c0000417
You do not have to accept
her demands.
c0000418
Just as Serie will fail me
no matter what I say,
c0000419
she will pass you
regardless of your words.
c0000420
Like I said, Serie's intuition
is always right.
c0000421
[FERN] I have a teacher...
c0000422
and it's Mistress Frieren.
c0000423
♪
c0000424
[chuckles]
c0000425
She warned you
this would happen.
c0000426
Whatever the case,
I'm not foolish enough
c0000427
to hold back a promising mage.
c0000428
You pass.
c0000429
Next.
c0000430
[indistinct chatter]
c0000431
[FRIEREN] I'll see you later.